[HUGIN]
Repeat after me.
The world must be free of bugs.
The world will be free,
thanks to bugs.
[gasps]
[HUGIN] You've certainly
made quite the mess
of things, Kaburagi.
One that will take a great
deal of effort to clean up.
Tell me, is Deca‐dence safe?
[HUGIN] Nobody would gain
anything from you knowing that.
You and I have far more
pressing concerns right now.
I wouldn't take back any of it.
Your "world free of bugs" sounds
completely miserable to me,
and I want no part of it.
So instead, you've
chosen to become a bug.
It's been right in
front of me all this time.
How did I not see it before?
Maybe try taking off
those dumb shades?
[MUNIN]
Pipawk!
[HUGIN]
Well, no matter.
It doesn't change
the obvious resolution
to the problem at hand.
Then do it already.
Pippa! Pippa, pippa, pippa.
[HUGIN]
That's unfortunate.
I believe that scrapping you
would be the company's
best course of action.
But a decision was
made to send you off
for bug correction instead.
That doesn't make sense.
Perhaps someone in some position
of influence feels otherwise.
In any case, you've been
given another chance.
Make the most of it and
set your thinking straight.
I look forward to meeting
you again someday.
[MUNIN]
Pipapa!
[CORRECTIONS CYBORG]
Good morning, everybody!
Welcome to the
bug correctional facility,
a service offered
to at‐risk personnel.
Remember, everyone
has something to contribute.
Help us, help you, help us!
All employees must be
examined before entry.
Accordingly, please hold still
as I administer
the special oxyone.
You're sayin' we
get oxyone for free?
This place kicks ass!
N‐N‐N‐N‐N‐Nice!
Here. Enjoy.
Here. And you. Next.
Next please. Next. And you.
Thank you. And you. Next please.
There.
[CORRECTIONS ANNOUNCER]
You will now be scanned
for any physical abnormalities
capable of generating bugs.
[BUG M]
It reeks in here!
[BUG N]
What kinda shit hole is this?
Where did they take us?
[GUARD CYBORG] While you're
here, you have one task.
You're going to break up
that heap of Gadoll excrement.
And you're going to dump it into
that vat for further processing.
Easy peasy!
[BUG Q]
Wait. All this is shit?
[RANDOM BUG A]
That's disgusting!
[RANDOM BUG B]
Let me out of here!
Please understand,
this is very important work!
You help us by recycling
the Gadoll's feces
into a fuel source for
the Deca‐dence facilities,
and we help you by providing
a golden opportunity
to put your energies to use
in a socially beneficial manner.
Which helps to power
our state‐of‐the‐art
entertainment facility.
And keeps your minds
and bodies sharp!
To hell with your sales pitch!
No one buys that crap!
We're stuck in
a literal shithole!
[BUG S]
Never you worry, youngster.
For guys like us
at times like this,
the thing to do is
head for the corner
and try not to get noticed.
You learn a few things
when you live as long as I have.
Uh?!
[RANDOM BUG D]
What the hell?
[RANDOM BUG E]
Same question.
[GUARD CYBORG] You'll need to
keep an ear out for the buzzer.
[buzzer sounds off]
GUARD CYBORG] This indicates
a fresh drop is on the way.
Really? How's that "on the way"?
You think you're funny?
[GUARD CYBORG]
Listen up!
Huh?
You are all responsible
for your own safety
during your time here.
Lest you forget,
this facility was created
for the sole purpose
of eliminating bugs.
And if your condition
should prove untreatable,
we'll be left with
no choice but to eliminate you.
This concludes your
introduction to the facility.
Welcome to your new home.
[coughs]
[BUG I]
Hey, pal.
You still with us, there?
Eyes to the skies.
You're not lookin'
to get crushed, right?
[KABURAGI]
Yeah.
Thanks.
Of course I get why your mind's
tryin' to be somewhere else.
That whole
"important work" spiel
was just a different
kind of crap.
[NATSUME]
I swore an oath to myself.
That I'd push my limits and
smash every wall in my way!
[BUG B]
Gadoll spotted! Charge!
[BUG C]
Here we go. Like this.
Yeah, I got 'em. Let's go.
[BUG B]
Let me play. I'm dying!
Just let me back in!
I wanna play Deca‐dence!
Puttin' your back
into it, Kaburagi.
I respect that.
Huh?
Ah, that's right.
It's Sarkozy.
How do?
Glad to meetcha, bud.
Not too often you get someone
genuinely trying in here.
Five years in it's just another
shitty job, no pun intended.
Oh man, and by
the time you hit ten,
the turd vapors will have
burned those memories
of the outside right
outta yer head! Heh heh.
I'm not staying
here for ten years.
I'm gonna fix my bugs
and get out ASAP.
No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
You know they didn't send us to
corrections to make us better.
They threw us in the same
place they dump the shit in.
You don't do that with something
you plan on getting back later.
[gasps]
Hold it!
Simmer down!
You were just thinking
about escaping, weren't ya?
Well tough luck,
the crap we're shoveling
comes from an underwater
Gadoll facility.
There's a whole lake
on top of us.
No point in dodging
feces for years
and then being crushed by water
pressure once you bust out.
Yeah, I'm afraid there's
no gettin' outta here.
But, they say home is
where you make it, right?
[KABURAGI]
Hmm...
Hey, Sark, is it ready?
Ah, so good to see you!
Fresh brewed!
Here you go.
Thanks, come again!
Sarkozy's own oxyone liquor!
A healthy dose of oxyone,
fermented Gadoll poo
for flavor, and delicious!
[KABURAGI]
I'll pass, thanks.
One for you. And you.
Enjoy. Cheers.
Watch me. Like this.
[SARKOZY]
Heya, Kabu.
You know it's your
one‐month anniversary today.
Wanna celebrate?
No thank you.
I'm good.
Lotsa guys genuinely
enjoy it though.
[SARKOZY]
Tell me somethin'.
What is it that keeps you going?
Not sure.
Hard work won't set you free.
And you didn't
need me to tell you that.
[KABURAGI] I guess I
can't really call it hope.
But I'm not gonna stop
till I've pushed past my limits.
So it's like that.
[KABURAGI] Besides, if I gave
up now, she would be pissed.
Huh? So there's a "she" here.
That's right.
Loud‐mouthed Tanker kid
on Deca‐dence.
[SARKOZY]
Ohohoh. A Tanker?
They're just there
for atmosphere, guy!
[KABURAGI]
That's what I thought, too.
But thinking of her
is what keeps me going.
Man, you're somethin' else, huh?
Me, I'm exactly
what I seem to be.
Too late to find my limits,
let alone push 'em.
[KABURAGI]
Anyone who says that is a liar.
Huh?
For us, it's never too late.
But, truth is, for all I know,
this kid could've gotten killed
before they even
threw me in here.
[SARKOZY]
Nah, she's fine.
Oh yeah, seems like the Gadoll
aren't getting up to much.
[KABURAGI]
What?
Uh! Don't freak out,
but the way I heard it is
they're docile right now
'cause of the tuning.
The Gears are
gettin' pretty bored.
Huh...
Hey, Sarkozy!
Where are you getting this info?
Now you didn't hear
about it from me,
but some of the
guys rigged up a way
to log into Deca‐dence
from down here.
What'd you say?
Like this. And this.
Look at me. There.
[SUBORDINATE]
Incoming, sir.
New orders from the system.
"Reports from all departments
indicate adjustments
are complete.
Resume release of Gadoll
into the field immediately."
Sure took 'em long enough.
Glad they got their
asses in gear.
[SUBORDINATE] They had to build
a whole new update from scratch.
I'll set the first wave
to release this afternoon.
Sounds good to me.
You ready to try again yet, huh?
You better catch it this time!
I told you not to let it
bounce, you stupid insect!
[NATSUME]
You've known him longer.
Where do you think he went?
[KURENAI]
Quiet, isn't it?
[NATSUME]
Miss Kurenai.
Good to see you.
[KURENAI] This place
feels totally different
when there's no
fighting going on.
What a sweet face!
Come here.
Who's a good boy?
[KURENAI] Did you ever
track down your boss?
[NATSUME]
Uh, no.
[KURENAI]
Hmm.
I wonder where
he could have gone.
Are you okay?
[NATSUME]
Huh?
Oh yeah!
Any day now, he's gonna
show up here like he never left.
And I'm here ready to smack down
any Gadoll that
steps up till then!
[laughs]
I'm glad to hear it!
Oh, settle down
ya little sausage!
[SARKOZY] There's some
real nasty dudes in here.
"Scrap ya for lookin'
at 'em wrong" kinda nasty.
Yeah?
That's how you react?
These are full‐blown badasses
even the guards
don't wanna mess with!
You should be scared of that!
Yeah, well.
The point is, these
badasses of yours
have a way back into
Deca‐dence, don't they?
You're killin' me here.
Buddy, they're not just
gonna let you use it.
I haven't bothered keeping count
of the ones who've
gone to ask 'em.
but I do know this!
For a fact!
Not a damn one of
'em ever came back!
Sarkozy.
Uh, yeah?
I want you to
take me to these guys.
Let's go.
Huuuuuuh?!
[TURKEY]
Why are you here, Sark?
We're set on hooch for the
month, so could you piss off?
[DONATELLO]
Let him through.
Well thanks.
Hi there. Hey guys.
What's up?
You're kiddin' me.
Been a long damn time, pal.
What gives?
Did the golden boy
turn out to be a bug?
Donatello.
Your new place stinks like hell.
Shut your mouth,
you arrogant bastard!
[PUNK A]
You think you're funny?
[PUNK B]
You ready to die, pal?
[PUNK C]
We'll make you disappear, punk!
[DONATELLO]
Hold on a sec.
What's a lapdog like you doin',
slummin' it with the strays?
I bet it's a funny story.
I came here to
log into Deca‐dence.
[SARKOZY]
Kabu, this is real bad.
See.
From where I sit,
it looks like you sold
yourself to the system
and let 'em stick you
in an armor repair job
'cause you were
scared of this place.
You knuckled
under like a coward.
You wanna ask me for a favor?
An ass‐beating's
all you deserve.
[KABURAGI] I'm not
an armor repairer anymore.
I'm the same as you.
I'm a bug.
[laughs]
And what for?
Why are you so
desperate to get back in?
There's a certain Tanker
I wanna talk to.
[PUNK D]
For a damn Tanker!
[PUNK E]
Get a load of this moron!
[DONATELLO] Look. This place
has rules you gotta respect,
and I know you've
licked enough boot
to understand how that works.
So how bad you
wanna play, lapdog?
You miss your Tanker buddy
enough to wager your life?
[KABURAGI]
I'll do whatever I have to.
If betting my life is what it's
gonna take, then yeah, I'm game.
Heh...
Everyone hear that?
It's time to party!
You total imbeciles.
[PUNKS] Death Dive! Death Dive!
Death Dive! Death Dive!
Death Dive!
[TURKEY]
If you're pumped for this,
let me hear it,
you crazy bastards!
That's right, suckers.
Time for Death Dive!
Once again, we've got
another dumbass cyborg
willing to throw his life
away for a chance to log in!
And that dumbass will
be our first contestant!
A pawn of the system,
prepared to die horribly
for your amusement
so he can go see
his favorite Tanker.
Kaburagi!
And now, your champion is
making his way to the ring!
For him, life's a game, and
he's going all in every round!
Reining king of
the Death Dive ring.
Dauntless, peerless, shoots
to kill and nothing less!
Donatello!
[DONATELLO]
This is a whole 'nother game.
No avatars, just us.
You better make it
fun for me, Kabu.
Now here are the rules.
And don't worry,
we just got two of 'em.
Those shovels are
the only weapons!
Whichever one of
you knocks the other
into the tank is the winner.
That's it!
Got it? Good!
The rules don't say the loser
has to die, but gravity does!
Okay! Fighters.
Let's get started!
Prepare to Death Dive!
Ready.
Go!
Kabu! No!
[DONATELLO]
Ya havin’ fun, bud?
Do it!
Toss that trash into the hole!
Is this really all you got, huh?
You make me wanna puke!
If you can't even take a swing,
you'll get knocked out!
Dammit!
[KABURAGI] No way I'm
gonna go down like this!
Come on. You look like
a punk bitch right now!
Hey. Leggo! Get off me!
You little‐‐
[KABURAGI]
Don't move!
[gasping]
So what do I look like
to you now, Donatello.
Still a punk?
[DONATELLO]
Hmm...
More like an
oversized cockroach.
Who's gonna die!
Game over!
We're both going down!
That's how it is, Kabu!
We can finish
this fight in hell!
Donatello!
He's gone.
That can't be!
No way!
Oh, Kabu.
Huh?
Could that be...?
[DONATELLO]
Bastard.
You brought working
jets into the fight.
[KABURAGI] Yeah, but I didn't
use 'em until it was over.
Hmph! We smell like ripe ass.
He's nuts.
Holy crap!
They lived?
[sighs]
[DONATELLO barfs]
[DONATELLO]
Why?
I can't say.
Just feels like the guy
I wanna be would do what I did.
Kaburagi!
Filthy cheater!
I'll kill you!
That's enough outta you, Turkey.
But... But he...!
You tryin' to
embarrass me or what?
Uh. No, Boss.
[KABURAGI]
You had a gun the whole time?
And I didn't use it
till we were done.
You kept your word.
We'll do the same.
Come with me.
[JILL] You made sure
to scrub the doodoo slurry
off the soles of your feet?
[DONATELLO] I scrubbed
everywhere, I told you!
[KABURAGI]
Didn't expect this.
Woohoo!
[JILL] Now to be clear,
you're not going to be
accessing your
old account from here.
You're going to have
to build a new avatar.
Your human friend
won't know it's you
when they see you.
[KABURAGI]
Understood.
I'll deal with it.
You really think this was
worth risking your life?
Yeah.
Hey, your call.
Anyway, you won.
[JILL]
All right, we're ready to go.
[DONATELLO]
Okay. Then do it
Already was, thank you.